---
layout: post
title: "Ding 1.0!"
category: 10io
tags: [ruby, jekyll]
---

Jekyll has hit 1.0 a few days ago! We have now more [features](http://blog.parkermoore.de/2013/05/06/jekyll-1-dot-0-released/) from our beloved static site generator. For me, it was time to give my blog a new look and to try a new way to deploy it. Reading the awesome jekyll [documentation](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/), I found several references to [GitHub Pages](http://pages.github.com/). I already knew that GitHub Pages were used for project websites or documentation but I didn't take a look to use it for my blog.

#Bye Heroku, Hello Octocat
It was time to say goodbye to heroku. These guys are great. I still use it for all my Rails projects. Even at work we have all the staging and production environments deployed with them. Anyway, static websites deserve a simple deployment like just ftping the whole thing or better, git pushing everything. That's exactly how GitHub Pages work:

* You create a repository with a special name *username*.github.io
* You upload a whole Jekyll website using the standard git push origin master
* 2 minutes later, your pages are accessible at: *username*.github.io

You can't do simplier than that. Really.

Still, I saw two limitations:

* GitHub Pages run Jekyll in *safe* mode, which means no plugins.
* I have a custom domain name(blog.10io.net) and I want to use it for this blog.

The good news: point 2 is part of the features from GitHub Pages. If you read their [documentation](https://help.github.com/articles/setting-up-a-custom-domain-with-pages), they help you to set up a custom domain in a snap.

For point 1, I did some search since I really wanted to generate the site locally and then push the result. This way I could use any [plugin](https://github.com/10io/jekyll-thumbnailify) I want. Mister Google told me about this [article](http://ixti.net/software/2013/01/28/using-jekyll-plugins-on-github-pages.html) written by ixtis. It shows a way to generate and upload a Jekyll website. All of this using a simple but smart rake task. After copying the task, I was deploying the whole site to GitHub Pages. Cool!

#New look
I had a new way to deploy, so I decided to have a new look. This one is based on [hooligan](https://github.com/dhulihan/hooligan). I took the jekyll 1.0 gem, generated a new site and copied the posts directory. That's it. I had a new website using Jekyll 1.0. After some tweakings on the theme, I was pushing this whole new version to GitHub Pages.

I still plan to add more features to this blog:

* Add my twitter stream to the sidebar
* Add a search functionality
* Add Google analytics
* I am not certain to add comments, so for now I will not add Disqus comments.

If you look for an effective way to manage and publish a static site, Jekyll + GitHub Pages is a perfect combo! And remember:
> You can't beat a static site!
